Today, this is the workshop 4 for you and the workshop name is Resilient Automated Configuration
Management. And before I'm going through all of the details, me show you something. This is the
file, okay? This is a very blank file. It has nothing. So now you are writing a variable called
name. And under the variable, you are putting the name of the . And you are also writing the
password over there. Now, unfortunately, what you have done, you have also said the password is
1234. And if somebody has access to this file, he got to know that the username is and the password
is 1234. What is the main problem that you have found here? The main problem is that somebody has
hardcoded the password. The password is not encrypted. So if somehow the hacker or somebody else who
don't have the access to this file, get the access to this file and the password is cracked. Now
what could be a potential solution for that? The potential solution could be the password 1234 could
be encrypted. or could be encoded or may the password should never be here. So these are the three
potential options that you have. So instead of directly writing the password over here, you could
have three options. Either you could encode the password. Encoding means one two three four will
become something like very random V, something like this. So that is completely bogus. That means
somebody even have access to this file. They go to say that VIGT. So it can understand whether it
belongs to the one two three four or not. Or encrypted means you're trying to encrypt them. Or some
things like this, you put the password into an ENV file, and under the ENV file, you set all of the
parameters your particular program should require to run. So now if somebody asks you, how can I
understand whether somebody has hardcoded this kind of confidential information into our system?
Since this specific file is very simple, it only has the two lines. So by using, you and me can
easily identify or understand, okay, this is one, two, three, four, that is confidential and
shouldn't be there. But if this is a thousands line program or millions of lines program, that it
will become difficult for you and me to identify and understand what exactly is there. And that's
why over the past years, even the last 10 to 15 years, the researcher, the developers, or the
security engineers are trying to identify or develop some kind of tools those tools can easily
identify and detect this kind of hard-coded credentials. Or some kind of credentials, those should
not be there into your configuration management. And today's class is all about this, where one of
the developers has designed a tool that could identify or understand this kind of credentials into a
configuration file. And from there, it will report you back that what kind of security
vulnerabilities that it has found. And in a simple term, we call it the misconfiguration. Something
that should not be there, it's been there. This is called the misconfiguration. And there's the
project all about the workshop 4. The workshop 4 is very simple to understand. It requires only
three to four lines. Nothing require coding over here. Just the three to four command and your
program or your workshop or assignment is going to be ready. So workshop 4, we call it the resilient
automated management. And that is something connected to the Kubernetes. I don't know whether you
heard about the Kubernetes before or not, but suppose you have an application called avc.com. When
you have this application, you have three options to deploy this application. You take a simple VM
into AWS and then deploy your application. That is option number one. There are multiple options
could be. You can say that, OK, I'm not going to go for the AWS VM. I'm going to go for the GCP,
Google Cloud VM. Then you can also take a VM into the GCP and deploy your application over there.
And suppose somehow the VM that you have selected into the AWS and the GCP has a maximum capacity of
100 user. That means at a single time concurrently 100 user can access your system. And if that is
the 100 plus 1th user, what will happen to the 100 1th user? He's going to be in the queue. He's
going to be in the waiting list. That means if somebody of this 100 user that doesn't log out from
your system, the 101th user cannot access to your system, that is kind of waiting time. So this user
has to be waiting. Now that is not a good solution then, because I want every user, doesn't matter
whoever it is, this is the 100th user or the 10,000th user, they should gain access to our system.
Then we can say that the system is reliable, system is readily available. Right now, the
architecture or simple application that you have deployed into the AWS or GCP is not scalable. That
means the user is going to be into the waiting state. If Netflix has been designed in like this, and
if you're trying to enjoy the movie of Game of Thrones or something, Genie and Georgia, then
definitely you're not going to like this. Nobody wants to be in the waiting list. And what could be
other solution then? Then in 2015, Google was trying to solve this problem. They came up with
something. They call it scalable solution. And they named it Kubernetes. He said that, okay, when
you have your application, avc.com, simply wrap it into a folder. Here we call the folder a
container. Later, ship that container. into a tiny VM. Now suppose this VM has a capacity of 100
users and can access. If somehow the user number raises. That means the 100 users become 10,000
users. Then the Kubernetes will automatically create another VM of that application. Now suppose one
VM can handle 100 requests, and you have 10,000 users right now trying to access your system. How
many VMs are you going to require? It's going to require 100 VMs. And as a developer, you don't need
to do anything. You just set the application into the Kubernetes, and Kubernetes is going to be
handling everything. Now suppose what will happen at 10 a.m., you have 100 users, and at 10.50, you
have 10,000 users, and 11 a.m., it again reduced back to the 100 user. Now the system will
automatically identify how many VMs it will require, how many containers it's going to require. It
will scale up and then scale down. That is called the automation. That is called the resiliency.
That means it doesn't matter whether you have the millions of users or not. It will automatically
detect the traffic. It will automatically make sure your application is always available. We call it
Reliable Solution and Scalable Solution. And this is going to be your first interview question
whenever you're applying for any kind of job, software engineering job or something else. Software
engineering jobs, DevOps engineering job, any other job that you're going to be applying for. If
somebody is trying to give you access to their terminal and to help you to design an application,
they're going to be scalable. Then you have to answer that. If you're simply saying that I have my
application, I'm going to deploy it into the VM, that doesn't work. You have to identify that the
current scenario, the current user basis is extremely large and unpredictable. We don't know how
many users are going to be in the next second. So we have to design our application in such a way
that it doesn't matter how many users we're going to have. In the unforeseen event, it is always
ready to scale up and it is always ready to scale down to make sure that the budget of your
application doesn't exit. So you have to make sure your application is scalable. At the same time,
the company is going to set a budget constraint. For this application, I'm not going to spend more
than $1,000 per month. You have to adjust your application, and it's deployed within this
constraint. So that is the workshop 4. Just go through all of the details. The workshop 4 required
three. What are the requirements? for this Oxford 4. to run. Make sure you have Docker installed. So
I have my Docker over here. So I'm using the Mac. So if you're using Windows, try to make sure the
Docker is running. You can install the Docker through the terminal. I'm using the Docker desktop. So
just try to download the Docker. And after you have downloaded the Docker, make sure the Docker is
running or not. Run this command, docker ps. It will show that the Docker is successfully running.
Now the question is, second part. As I mentioned that uh somebody has developed some kind of tools
which can easily identify whether is any kind of security solutions or something, this kind of
credentials is hard coded or not, of any kind of misconfigurations are there. And for this, there is
a tool. This tool is available here. We try to download this tool. then we need to run this tool. on
the, suppose that file password dot txt that is specific file, it could be a folder. It could be a
giant folder. Project directory. So it could be anything. It is the target you could set for. The
first part is the docker instance installed. Second part, we need to download this tool. The third
part is to run this tool on the specific directory or the folders or anything that could be there.
Now the question is, what are the misconfigurations look like for this specific project? Under this
specific project, you'll find a directory called kubectl master. Just go there. And under this
kubectl master, you'll find a folder called test artifact, that means that is the target folder on
which you have to run this tool, against which. And there are lots of different artifact. Suppose
password.txt is an artifact. Simply, in the case of the Kubernetes, we define the artifact using a
simple extension. That extension is called YAML. Yet another markup language. That is the extension.
So see, Let's see the first extension, allow.privilege.yaml. So here is C. So that is a
configuration. So when you run your application against this configuration, it will try to check
whether this kind of configuration has anything hardcoded or security being exposed over here. If
nothing is found, it's reporting zero misconfiguration found. If one misconfiguration found, it will
report search. two misconfiguration found, it will report two misconfiguration found. Now, did you
see any misconfiguration over here in this specific configuration file? Is anything hardcoded? No.
But there could be something missing. We really don't know because we're not expert of the
Kubernetes. So we'll let the tool that somebody has designed for us to detect it and give it back
what they have found inside it. Similarly, this is another configuration C. the configuration file
is going to be high. Number of lines is larger. Earlier, it is 10 lines. Now it becomes 44 lines.
There is another configuration file, which is even larger, even bigger, the 125. Now, if you are a
simple human being is going through all of these files, it becomes a headache for you. You're going
to die. There's lots of things that you can identify and understand. So what we are going to do,
we're going to follow the instructions over here. into the github repo you will find that repo
inside your git project that the professor might have shared with you then first thing that you are
going to run is this command you can skip this two command no need to run this thing so what you are
going to do you are going to pull that tool that means you have to first download that tool into
your local machine Let's see. Let me try to download this tool into my local machine. Okay. It is
downloaded. Then you have to check whether it's really been downloaded or not. Docker images. I have
lots of different tools over there. So that is the tool that we are working on, the SLI Q. So the
tool is being downloaded. And the next part is to check. We already run it. And to check the tools,
we call it the images. So we just need to run the docker image minus a hyphen a means all. List me
all of the images that I have in my local machine. Now you have to run this file. That is the point
where you are trying to enter into the tool and run the tool against the target file. on which you
have to find out all of the misconfigurations. try to run this tool. we are into the tool right now.
So earlier, I was in my local machine. When I just run the tool and we enters into a docker machine.
That means we can say that the tool is now running. And that's why it is saying that root at the
rate that is the, if this is my local machine, it's going to be root at the rate local machine.
Since this is a Docker, so it randomly assign a tag for it. So it becomes a random assignment. Now
if you check, either any machine is currently running or not, you just need to run docker ps. You
see, just 38 seconds ago, I ran these two. And this docker container is basically running right now,
and it has a container ID, and it has a container tag. And that specific identifier is the container
ID. And this container ID is going to be different for everybody whenever you're running it into a
local. So it's going to be different for you. even the container name is also going to be different
for you. Now let's try to understand what are the contents over there in the specific tools and what
specific functions that we need to run whenever we enter into this Docker container. See, you'll
find lots of different files over there. Just forgot everything. These are the, this is not the
things that you're interested on. You'll be mostly interested on SLI cube work. That is the file
which has the executable tools that we're looking for. Just enter into the SLI cube. And you'll find
a file called CubeSacMaster. Just enter into the CubeSacMaster. And you'll find the main application
that the researcher or developer has designed to make this tool running. And here you'll find
something called main.py. That means we are basically into the correct folder to run this tool right
now. What should be the first step right now? Try to run this tool, main.py, and see what the tools
basically produces. That is a very interesting part. So the tool is trying to analyze this specific
folder, the test artifact, the folder that I mentioned earlier. And this specific folder has all of
the artifact, which has the YAML extension. And in the first artifact, it has found one
misconfiguration. In the second artifact, which is the nfs.server.yml, it has found three
misconfiguration. Now we are going to go into the details what are the misconfigurations it has
found. But let's try to figure out what are the misconfigurations out there. And this is another
configuration, vernis.yml. It has found four misconfigurations. This it has found lots of different
misconfigurations in the different YAML file. So tool is doing your job. Now what is our workshop is
all about? In our workshop, we are going to give a zip file w4.zip you have to unzip it first then
you have to run this tool. What is the tool? the python main.py against this w4 target directory. w4
zip has more than 100.yaml files. So when the tool is running against this w4, it will figure out
different misconfigurations and your task is to generate that misconfiguration. File.csv, the
misconfiguration file will be generated in a extension called csv. So your output should be
output.csv. And then you have to submit that output.csv in canvas. But that's not the end of the
assignment. This is the first part of the assignment there is also another second part of this
assignment too. The second part of this assignment is you have to read this paper. This paper is
published, I think, 2021. And for this specific paper, this tool is being designed. So these are the
four developers who basically designed this tool. So we have Dr. Islam. He is a PhD student over
here, but recently joined the Kennesaw State University as an assistant professor. Dr. Ravmal is
currently over here as an assistant professor. And that is another professor, Bosch. He's from the
Virginia Tech. And Mr. Pandit from the GitHub. And there you need to read this paper. Mostly this
paper is going to be little. Let me download this paper and open this for you. The most interesting
section you're going to be reading is section 2.3. section 2.2, methodology to identify the security
misconfiguration categories. Then read forward section 2.3 you will find the answer to the research
question 1 and in the answers to the research question 1 they have reported different kinds of
misconfiguration categories. Since this CSV file going to be reporting you misconfigurations like
this. This is the CSV file that the tool is going to be producing for you. See, it has gone through
this specific directory. It is saying that I have evaluated that specific artifact chart.veloz.yml
and I have found, tried to identify these eight categories of the misconfiguration. What are those
eight categories? The first category is within the manifest secret. It has said that I didn't find
anything like relevant to that category. into the config into this specific configuration file. And
then it will try to look for the valid 10th secret misconfiguration. Then it will go for say count
over privilege misconfiguration but something interesting has happened over here. You see, for the
first it artifact it didn't find any misconfiguration. But if you go to the second artifact, you'll
find a misconfiguration called insecure HTTP. That means, somehow, You should be designing your
application for abc.com and there should be HTTPS, that means secure communication, but somehow you
missed this S and it becomes a plain text. What will happen if the Facebook is written like this?
Suppose if you go to the Facebook, you'll automatically find that this HTTPS is enforced. But what
if the HTTPS is not enforced? Then you're using the username, ABC. You're using the password, I1234.
If somebody is hacking your system, or suppose this is the hacker, is trying to see what kind of
password that you are typing into your Facebook login, it will automatically find the whole password
into the plain text. That means the password is not being encrypted or encoded. But when you are
enforcing the HTTPS, anything you are typing into this field, everything becomes encoded or
encrypted. So that's why the HTTPS is automatically enforced into your system. But somehow, for that
specific artifact it has found that the HTTPS is not being enforced. So that is a communication,
that is a misconfiguration that you should figure out. And it also has find another
misconfiguration. They call it the no rolling update. So you don't need to understand the details of
the what kind of misconfigurations these are. Just try to read the section 2.3. There you'll find
out what does each of these misconfiguration means. So if you read the section 2.3, you'll
understand what does it mean by the absent resource limit, what does it mean by absent security
context activation of the host IPC, activation of the host network. Yes, to become a master of the
Kubernetes, even to understand the Kubernetes 1.0.0, 1.0.1, that means the first part of the
Kubernetes, you need to understand what the Kubernetes is. Since this course is not related to the
Kubernetes for now, but in future, you'll understand. So I need to learn more about the Kubernetes,
then you can simply search the Kubernetes 1.0.1, and you'll find the details of what you should be
learning. But this is the starter. So here they mentioned about the eight different, I think, 12
different misconfigurations, 11 different misconfigurations. So you must have to read the section
2.3 to understand what is the context behind this misconfiguration, what this misconfiguration is
trying to say. let's go to the second part of this application. So the first part, you have to run
this C and look at the output file generated by the tool into the SLA cube work directory. if you go
back to your tool, you'll find folder call like this, a file call. That is the file that is being
generated when you run this tool demo output dot csv so that this is the file that you have to put
into the canvas. But for your cases, you can define a file, a completely different name. The output
file is a csv that has multiple columns. So that image, as i already have shown you the it has
multiple columns inside it. That means multiple different misconfigurations is being reported by
tool. Then the first two columns correspond to the directory and the path of the artifact. The rest
correspond to the count of the instances for a specific category. You'll use this count to determine
the most three frequent ones. That means now we have the 11 different categories of the
misconfiguration reported by this tool. But your task is to identify what are the three most
frequent misconfigurations being reported by this tool. Okay? So that is the question that we are
looking to answer. Three most frequent misconfiguration that is being reported to this file. And for
that, you have to go through the csv file again and trying to check, okay, what could be the
potential three most frequent misconfiguration? You see a number over here, four. So that could be a
potential candidate. Let's see what is this category belongs to. within manifest secret. So that is
a potential candidate because it has a higher number compared to the R. Now let's see if there is
any other. Then we have found something called 2. That means that could be another potential
misconfiguration in the top 3 category. Let's see if we can find something larger than these
numbers. We also have found two So you have to manually go through this CSV file and try to figure
out what are the three most frequent misconfigurations that is being reported. Or something
interesting could happen. What could be interesting over there? bring your agentic AI into your
system and ask him the question, feet. Now it is going to read this CSV file for you and try to
report back what is the three most misconfiguration files is being. So there DG is an agent tool
that is designed by me. So you are not going to have this tool by yourself, but you can use any
other contest for you. Now it is showing that, okay, I have figured out the three potential most
frequent misconfiguration. What is the first number? No network policy. It is saying that I have
found the no network policy 28 times when I was surfing through the CSV file that is being
generated. So that is one of the most frequent misconfiguration. Now if we go through the paper to
understand what does it mean that... No network policy. You'll find this something the activation of
the host network or something else or policy related to the something like or if you really don't
understand what does it mean by the no network policy you can even ask what does it mean by no
network policy. Or there are some open source tools that you can use. What are the tools? I think
all of you are familiar with the Gemini. You have the Gemini CLI installed into your local machine.
It's not just trying to install the Gemini. Gemini will exactly do the same stuff that Gigi is going
to do over here. Since Gigi is not still being open source, so I'm designing these things for any
kind some upcoming conferences or something else so you can even try this Gemini Gemini will get the
contest of the CSP Yes. You can even ask the Gemini multiple number equations. What is the question
that I asked earlier? That is the question. Let's copy and paste the question over here. it is also
going to give the same answer. Even you can try if you have the cloud version subscription. Even you
can ask the same questions to you. So that is called some kind of vibe coding. The advanced
techniques that you're going to be using in the 2026 or not into 2027 or 2028. And that's how the
things become easy and things become fast. Instead of putting this file into the GPT, everybody does
it. How differently you do the things by yourself. That means you're trying to bring the whole
agentic solution into our terminal, into our local, so the local can read these files, can see what
is the file structure, could help you understand everything that you're going to need based on the
file structure. So you're going to simply put him that, okay, so this is the demo.output.csv. I
really don't understand what is this file is all about. Could you please help me understand? Then
you can also ask him, okay, into the demo.output.csv, there's a misconfiguration called no sec
contest. Would you please highlight in which artifact this misconfiguration is being reported? She's
going to give you everything. So Gemini is still loading the file. The solution that I have built is
a little bit faster here. So that is the hands-on in-class experience that we have over here at your
home. What you have to do, you'll find a file called w4.zip. This is the file. First, download this
file, unzip this file, then go to the main.py. And if you go to the main.py, now you have to find
something called, this is hard-coded. Initially, the main.py has these two lines. That means it is
hard-coded for the demo simulation, the test artifact. Here, you have to, when you unzip the w4.zip
file, it will unzip into a folder called k-test-artifact. So that means you are now setting a new
target, a new directory that these tools will be running against this specific directory, not the
directory that we just ran. then you save the result into the w4result.csv and you have to submit
the w4result.csv into the canvas at the same time. Try to give me the answer of the three most
frequent misconfigurations being reported into this csv file. The report should not be more than one
page. You can write the report into the txt file or pdf file or the doc file, doesn't matter for me.
Just write the report, make sure the report doesn't extend beyond the one page, 300 word. So that is
the two deliverables that we have found this workshop for. And that workshop was to respond in the
earlier courses, earlier classes in 2024 and 2025, one of the easiest part of this software quality
assurance, the lab assignment. So that is something very easy. You just need to run three to four
different commands. let me recap the course class again. So you have to first run this command,
docker pull, to pull the tool into a local. Then you have to verify whether the tool is really being
downloaded. Then you have to run this tool. The tool automatically runs into this specific
directory, which is hard-coded. Then you will find something called demo.csv that is being generated
by this tool. Then you have to download the w4.zip. You have to unzip it. Then you unzip it, you'll
find the folder called k8s artifact. You have to modify the main.py file with the path of this
artifact. It can be anything path for you. So for me, this is under the slash workshop. So if you
simply unloaded it, it could be something like this for you. Or it could be your name. anything that
means why you have downloaded this or unzipped or extracted this file. So slash workshop is not
mandatory. But that is mandatory okay it is artifact and w for result dot csv. And final daily
variables are two files. The first file is a csv file and the second file is the three most frequent
vulnerabilities or misconfigurations being reported. So see what the Gemini returns for us. Gemini
is very slow. Even the cloud is better. So cloud reads the file, and it's already making a table for
you. So it's saying that, OK, these are the three most common misconfigurations that I have found
for you. There are no network policy. Even the tools that we have designed, it's also saying that
there are no network policy. But see, each of these tools is saying the count differently. It is
saying that the count is 28. Gemini Clouding is also saying the count is 28. So that is consistent.
Let's see how the Gemini is reporting. Gemini is reporting the 28. Each of these tools is counting
the misconfigurations correctly. Many of the cases you'll find the tools are not that good to
exactly give the correct numeric number. So in that specific cases, you have to manually check
whether the number 28 is exactly the number it should be. So I have to manually check for my eyes.
So that is a, I think this is still going on. Tim and I. I think that's all for this class. Whether
I didn't introduce myself, I'm a PhD student over here. This is my second year. I'm doing the PhD in
Computer Science and Software Engineering. But before joining in the Auburn, I was a part of the
Oracle as a level three senior solution and cloud architect. I always have a passion after
completing this PhD. I think it will take another two and a half years or three years to going back
to Oracle again. So I have around six to seven years of experiences in the Alipay and the Oracle.
Even I'm working with Dr. Dozier over here in some kind of... You know the Obby? We are trying to
design something, an AI reality version of the Obby, a female version. And you're going to see it
after March 3. A big announcement is going to come for the Auburn University portal, that something,
an AI avatar is being generated for Auburn University. And people can talk to it. Talk to Hari. It's
a Har. And it's a very beautiful name. I'm not going to reveal the name right now, but it's
something connected to the Aube. So that could be the next Aube for the Auburn University history.
And we got the opportunity, me and the two other persons, are basically working on this project, and
the project is mostly completed. And on the March 3, there is an upcoming AIU conference in the
Melton Student Center. They're going to introduce that specific avatar to everybody. OK, thank you.
If you have any questions or something, anything related to this course or any career advice that
you might want for me to answer for you, you can reach out to me in the LinkedIn. I've been
available in the LinkedIn all the time. Or you can also connect me. into our Harvard mill. I'm
always there for you.